README.md, before:

# quiz-app

A quiz app built with the following tech:

- [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/)
- [Docker with Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)
- [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/)
- [SQLAlchemy](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/) with [Alembic](https://alembic.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/)

## Getting Started

1. **Clone the repo**
2. **Downloads -** Make sure you have the following installed on your machine:

- [Docker Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
- [Postgres](https://www.postgresql.org/download/)

3. **Create an isolated Python environment and activate it -** Run the following commands from your terminal in the `project` directory:

```
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
(.venv) $ docker-compose up -d --build
```

Now that the app is running, check out the docs and play around with the API endpoints: [http://127.0.0.1:8004/docs](http://127.0.0.1:8004/docs)

## Running Database Migrations

We're using [SQLAlchemy](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/index.html) as our ORM and [Alembic](https://alembic.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/) to manage migrations. With the commands above in _Getting Started_, you should have...

- Two containers up and running: `web` and `web-database`
  - **NOTE:** You can confirm this by running `docker compose ps`
- Have two empty databases: `web_dev` and `web_test`

We manage our `web_dev` database migrations with alembic. For tests, we bind the models via SQLAlchemy and tables are built before any tests run.

### Migration Commands

- **Upgrade to the latest migration:** `docker compose exec web alembic upgrade head`
- **Upgrade per migration:** `docker compose exec web alembic upgrade +1`
- **Downgrade all the way back to nothing:** `docker compose exec web alembic downgrade base`
- **Downgrade per migrations:** `docker compose exec web alembic downgrade -1`
- **Get the current version:** `docker compose exec web alembic current`
- **After creating a new model and you want to autogenerate SQL:** `docker compose exec web alembic revision --autogenerate -m "Your commit message here"`

## Testing

As stated above, the test database is configured via `conftest.py` before any tests run. To run tests, make sure the containers are running and run: `docker compose run -e ENVIRONMENT=test web python3 -m pytest`

Commit message:

Rename project dir to backend and update docker compose for better names to prep for frontend

README.md, after:

# quiz-app

A quiz app built with the following tech:

- [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/)
- [Docker with Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)
- [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/)
- [SQLAlchemy](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/) with [Alembic](https://alembic.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/)

## Getting Started

1. **Clone the repo**
2. **Downloads -** Make sure you have the following installed on your machine:

- [Docker Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
- [Postgres](https://www.postgresql.org/download/)

3. **Create an isolated Python environment and activate it -** Run the following commands from your terminal in the `backend` directory:

```
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
(.venv) $ docker-compose up -d --build
```

Now that the app is running, check out the docs and play around with the API endpoints: [http://127.0.0.1:8004/docs](http://127.0.0.1:8004/docs)

## Running Database Migrations

We're using [SQLAlchemy](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/index.html) as our ORM and [Alembic](https://alembic.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/) to manage migrations. With the commands above in _Getting Started_, you should have...

- Two containers up and running: `backend` and `db`
  - **NOTE:** You can confirm this by running `docker compose ps`
- Have two empty databases: `dev` and `test`

We manage our `dev` database migrations with alembic. For tests, we bind the models via SQLAlchemy and tables are built before any tests run.

### Migration Commands

- **Upgrade to the latest migration:** `docker compose exec backend alembic upgrade head`
- **Upgrade per migration:** `docker compose exec backend alembic upgrade +1`
- **Downgrade all the way back to nothing:** `docker compose exec backend alembic downgrade base`
- **Downgrade per migrations:** `docker compose exec backend alembic downgrade -1`
- **Get the current version:** `docker compose exec backend alembic current`
- **After creating a new model and you want to autogenerate SQL:** `docker compose exec backend alembic revision --autogenerate -m "Your commit message here"`

## Testing

As stated above, the test database is configured via `conftest.py` before any tests run. To run tests, make sure the containers are running and run: `docker compose run -e ENVIRONMENT=test backend python3 -m pytest`
